Build/Firmware/README.md, before:

# Flatburn Firmware

## Environment
- Code developed using [Particle.io plugin for MS Code](https://www.particle.io/workbench/)
- Devices can be flashed both via cable or cloud flash (data costs)
- Currently testing on bsom [Particle deviceOS@4.0.0](https://docs.particle.io/reference/device-os/firmware)
- Written in C++ and [Particle deviceOS APIs](https://docs.particle.io/reference/device-os/firmware/)

## Dev Environment Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Open Particle Workbench
3. Run the `Particle: Import Project` command, follow the prompts, and wait for the project to load
4. Run the `Particle: Configure Workspace for Device` command and select a compatible Device OS version and the `bsom` platform when prompted ([docs](https://docs.particle.io/tutorials/developer-tools/workbench/#cloud-build-and-flash))
5. Connect your device
6. Compile & Flash!

## Quick overview of classes and files
- *cityscanner_config.h* main config file, needs to be updated before flashing
- *main.h* the program startpoint, should not be modified
- *cityscanner class* handles operation modes (more below)
- *CitySense class* manages data acquisition for environemental sensors (air quality, etc)
- *CityVitals class* acquires telemetry data (battery status, solar energy production, etc)
- *CityStore class* manages storing data on the SDcard, dumping data over TCP and over Particle Publish methods
- *MotionService class* used to send the device to sleep when the vehicle is not moving
- *LocationService class* provides gps data to other classes (e.g. CityStore)

## Operation modes
- *IDLE* sensors off, provides only telemetry data
- *REALTIME* logs data onto the SD card and send it in real time (via Particle publish)
- *LOGGING* buffer data onto the SD card and send multiple records upon request (via TCP)
- *PWRSAVE* like LOGGING but keeping the cellular modem OFF


#### Payload

deviceID, timestamp, latitude, longitude, PM1, PM25, PM10, bin0, bin1, bin2, bin3, bin4, bin5, bin6, bin7, bin8, bin9, bin10, bin11, bin12, bin13, bin14, bin15, bin16, bin17, bin18, bin19, bin20, bin21, bin22, bin23, flowrate, countglitch, laser_status, temperature_opc, humidity_opc, data_is_valid, temperature, humidity, ambient_IR, object_IR, gas_op1_w, gas_op1_r, gas_op2_w, gas_op2_r, noise

### Vitals
deviceID, timestamp, latitude, longitude, SOC_batt, temp_batt, voltage_batt, voltage_particle, current_batt, isCharging, isCharginS, isCharged, temp_int, hum_int, voltage_solar, current_solar, cell_strenght

# Command line interface
The CLI is available via REST, Particle.io Console and Slack. Each command might have 0-3 parameters. Some command return via Particle events or serial. *Commands are comma-separated* 

Command | Parameter #1 | Parameter #2 | Parameter #3 | Description
--------|--------------|--------------|--------------|-------------
battery |              |              |               | returns battery state_of_charge,temperature,voltage,voltage_alt,current,isCharging
solar   |              |              |               | returns solar panel voltage,current 
stop | || |Stops the device (light sleep) for 12hours or until it woken up by a motion even 
hibernate | [duration] | seconds OR minutes OR hours| Hibernate the device (heavy sleep)
reboot  | | | | Resets the device to default
location | | | | Returns the latest known GPS coordinates
last | payload | | Return the last payload (See payload schema above)
last | vitals | |  Return the last vitals (See vitals schema above)
sd | files | | | Returns n. of files buffered in the SD card
sd | dump | all | | Dump all files queued on the SD to mongoDB via TCP
sd | dump | [files_number]] | | Dump the number of files passed as parameter to mongoDB via TCP
sd | format | | | Format SD card *DO NOT USE*
cellularOFF | | | | Turns off the cellular modem untill the device is manually powercycled 
autosleep | on | | | Device goes to sleep after x minutes of no montion
autosleep | off | | | 
heat-cool | on | | | Turns on the heater or the fan
heat-cool | off | | |

Commit message:

use device-check to get it updated on dashboard

Build/Firmware/README.md, after:

# Flatburn Firmware

## Environment
- Code developed using [Particle.io plugin for MS Code](https://www.particle.io/workbench/)
- Devices can be flashed both via cable or cloud flash (data costs)
- Currently testing on bsom [Particle deviceOS@4.0.0](https://docs.particle.io/reference/device-os/firmware)
- Written in C++ and [Particle deviceOS APIs](https://docs.particle.io/reference/device-os/firmware/)

## Dev Environment Setup

1. Clone this repository
2. Open Particle Workbench
3. Run the `Particle: Import Project` command, follow the prompts, and wait for the project to load
4. Run the `Particle: Configure Workspace for Device` command and select a compatible Device OS version and the `bsom` platform when prompted ([docs](https://docs.particle.io/tutorials/developer-tools/workbench/#cloud-build-and-flash))
5. Connect your device
6. Compile & Flash!

## Quick overview of classes and files
- *cityscanner_config.h* main config file, needs to be updated before flashing
- *main.h* the program startpoint, should not be modified
- *cityscanner class* handles operation modes (more below)
- *CitySense class* manages data acquisition for environemental sensors (air quality, etc)
- *CityVitals class* acquires telemetry data (battery status, solar energy production, etc)
- *CityStore class* manages storing data on the SDcard, dumping data over TCP and over Particle Publish methods
- *MotionService class* used to send the device to sleep when the vehicle is not moving
- *LocationService class* provides gps data to other classes (e.g. CityStore)

## Operation modes
- *IDLE* sensors off, provides only telemetry data
- *REALTIME* logs data onto the SD card and send it in real time (via Particle publish)
- *LOGGING* buffer data onto the SD card and send multiple records upon request (via TCP)
- *PWRSAVE* like LOGGING but keeping the cellular modem OFF


#### Payload

deviceID, timestamp, latitude, longitude, PM1, PM25, PM10, bin0, bin1, bin2, bin3, bin4, bin5, bin6, bin7, bin8, bin9, bin10, bin11, bin12, bin13, bin14, bin15, bin16, bin17, bin18, bin19, bin20, bin21, bin22, bin23, flowrate, countglitch, laser_status, temperature_opc, humidity_opc, data_is_valid, temperature, humidity, ambient_IR, object_IR, gas_op1_w, gas_op1_r, gas_op2_w, gas_op2_r, noise

### Vitals
deviceID, timestamp, latitude, longitude, SOC_batt, temp_batt, voltage_batt, voltage_particle, current_batt, isCharging, isCharginS, isCharged, temp_int, hum_int, voltage_solar, current_solar, cell_strenght

# Command line interface
The CLI is available via REST, Particle.io Console and Slack. Each command might have 0-3 parameters. Some command return via Particle events or serial. *Commands are comma-separated* 

Command | Parameter #1 | Parameter #2 | Parameter #3 | Description
--------|--------------|--------------|--------------|-------------
battery |              |              |               | returns battery state_of_charge,temperature,voltage,voltage_alt,current,isCharging
solar   |              |              |               | returns solar panel voltage,current 
stop | || |Stops the device (light sleep) for 12hours or until it woken up by a motion even 
hibernate | [duration] | seconds OR minutes OR hours| Hibernate the device (heavy sleep)
reboot  | | | | Resets the device to default
location | | | | Returns the latest known GPS coordinates
device | check | | Return the device ID and last payload, useful for multiple devices
last | payload | | Return the last payload (See payload schema above)
last | vitals | |  Return the last vitals (See vitals schema above)
sd | files | | | Returns n. of files buffered in the SD card
sd | dump | all | | Dump all files queued on the SD to mongoDB via TCP
sd | dump | [files_number]] | | Dump the number of files passed as parameter to mongoDB via TCP
sd | format | | | Format SD card *DO NOT USE*
cellularOFF | | | | Turns off the cellular modem untill the device is manually powercycled 
autosleep | on | | | Device goes to sleep after x minutes of no montion
autosleep | off | | | 
heat-cool | on | | | Turns on the heater or the fan
heat-cool | off | | |
